galaxy are great labs

primary processes:
	"major" mergers
		release energy only surpasssed by big bang (> 19^64 erg)
		energy is thermalized as shocks, turbulence, and bulk motions (show hydra a & a3667)

secondary processes:
	  radiative cooling
	  	    cool cores
		    filaments
		    star formation
	  gentle heating
	  	 agn feedback (weak shocks, stir gas, enthalpy heating)
		 conduction
		 sound waves
	  "minor" mergers
	  	  gas sloshing
		  cold fronts
		  more turbulence/bulk motions

all processes dictate formation, evolution of clusters, groups, and
member galaxies (show ming's tail)

diffuse magnetic fields are stimulated by all these processes, so to
what extent they are important in dictating the redistribution of
energy is unclear

mergers -> halos/relics
sloshing/cold fronts -> draped B fields
turbulence/bulk motions -> MHD processes
MHD processes affect field configs -> influence physics in core? alter the feedback loop?

all about balancing the energy budget
    where did fields come from (primordial fields, agn, shocks, can we disentangle this)?
    what is their structure?
    what are their strengths?
    how do the above two correlate with cluster/group properties?
    are fields in CF sys stronger?
    coherence length?
    is there a universal B(r) profile like T(r) and n(r)?
    are fields smooth or clumpy?
    do all mergers have halos/relics?
    are some relics associated with powerful agn, e.g. MS0735?

need to undertake stat studies, but...
     how do 2nd procs affect our ability to measure cluster props like M?
     also, freq. & props of halos in redshift is test of sturc form

probe questions with
sync emission:
      total intensity -> spatial dist and magnitude
      polarization -> direction (coherence)
      ...of TOTAL fields

polar intens:
      dist, mag, and orien of anisotropic fields
      ...of reg fields

faraday rotation:
	mag and direction along los's
	...of regular fields

faraday depolar:
	mag and dist
	...of turb fields

not a LOFAR symposium, so focus on one question...

convergence of Surveys and Cosmic Magnetism Key Projects:
	    surveys identifies steep spectrum, diffuse, interesting sources
	    cosmic mag follows-up with polar

also cponvergence of X-ray and radio astronomy:
     	radio probes syn emi, but degen with B, e-
	hard x-ray breaks degen with info on e- (IC emission)

for member gals, polar measures mag and dir of ram pressure