"We discuss how measurements of linear polarisation of cluster
background and embedded sources can be used to study the cluster
magnetic field via Faraday rotation. We compare synthetic observations
with available data and make forecasts for up-coming radio
instruments. By applying Bayesian statistical analysis methods, we
investigate which constraints can be placed on cluster magnetic field
properties."

"AGN feedback in currently considered to be the most promising
mechanism to prevent excessive cooling in the central region of galaxy
clusters and groups. The combination of high quality X-ray imaging and
high sensitivity radio observations is a powerful tool to investigate
the ICM/AGN connection. The examination of radio images at multiple
frequencies (especially at < 1 GHz) is important to study the cycle of
the radio activity and elucidate the timescales and physical
mechanisms of the energy injection. With this aim we have started a
low frequency radio survey of a sample of 18 galaxy groups using the
GMRT at 610, 327 and 235 MHz. The surveys aims to study the
morphological and spectral properties of the central radio galaxy,
correlate the radio data with extant X-ray data, and investigate the
AGN effects at various phases of its activity. I will present the
preliminary results of the survey."

"Low-frequency radio observations of galaxy clusters are the key to
detecting the diffuse extended emission associated with them. The
presence and properties of such radio sources in galaxy clusters
reveal the existence of magnetic fields on a large scale and allow
theories to be tested concerning both the origin of relativistic
particles in the ICM and their propagation. Deep low frequency radio
observations of the galaxy cluster A2255 have been recently carried
out with the WSRT. At 1-meter wavelength (300 MHz) the well known
relic and halo show a bigger extent than the one known so far. New
addictional features are also detected SW and NW of the cluster center
and at projected distances of 2 Mpc from it. The analysis of their
physical properties suggests a LSS-shock association. The observations
at 150 MHz, currently under data reduction, will give us more
information on this link and on the polarized emission also detected
at 1-meter wavelength."

"In recent years clusters of galaxies have become one of the most
exciting and important areas of observational, numerical and
theoretical astrophysics. The study of galaxy clusters combines the
richness of plasma physics with the predictive power of modern
cosmological models to explain remarkable new observational
results. Recent and upcoming results from observatories such as
CHANDRA, XMM, HST, VLT, LBT, Herschel, South Pole Telescope, ACT,
APEX, SZA will dramatically expanded by Planck Surveyor, ALMA,
eRosita, NEXT, NUSTAR, as well as optical surveys such as Pan-STARRS,
SDSS III, and lensing surveys. There are also theoretical advances
from intensive numerical simulations, studies of the physics of
supermassive black holes, and stellar dynamics in dominant cD
galaxies.

These topics could include:
A) Cosmology with clusters [growth of structure, baryonic acoustic
oscillations, dark matter, dark energy]

B) Physics of ICM [shocks, particle acceleration, magnetic fields,
turbulence, thermal conductivity]

C) SN and AGN Feedback [accretion onto supermassive black holes;
cooling, heating]

D) Local clusters and groups (Virgo, Fornax, Coma); Dynamics of
galaxies and stars

E) Recent and future Large Surveys [X-Ray, optical, lensing,
SZ-effect]."

"The Decadal review demonstrates that Astrophysics has hit the Funding
Wall; no successor suite of missions to the Great Observatories will
be built. Notably no large X-ray mission will be started. In this new
Post-Decadal era what should be the path forward for X-ray (and other)
Astronomy? This talk is an update of a talk I gave this past July at
the '50 Years of Space Science at Leicester' meeting, where I asked
"What if IXO is not #1?". There is an answer."

"Information on the intracluster magnetic fields can be obtained, in
conjunction with X-ray observations of the hot gas, through the
analysis of the rotation measure (RM) of radio galaxies in the
background or in the galaxy clusters themselves. I will present a work
aimed to establish a possible connection between the magnetic field
strength and the gas temperature of the intracluster medium. For this
purpose we investigated the RM in hot galaxy clusters and we compared
these new data with RM information present in the literature for
cooler galaxy clusters."

"The past decade has illustrated the dramatic importance of AGN
feedback on the hot gas in groups and clusters. While these AGN are
generally associated with the brightest member of the group or
cluster, AGN are also present in other galaxies in these
environments. I will present new results on the distribution of AGN in
local group and cluster galaxies, the relative growth rates of the
black holes and their host galaxies, and the evolution of AGN in dense
environments out to high redshift. The demographics of local group and
cluster AGN shed new light on the origin of nuclear activity in
galaxies, as well as their ability to retain cold gas, while their
evolution provides important new information on the co-evolution of
black holes and galaxies as a function of environment."

"Radio and X-ray observations support a scenario where cluster-scale
synchrotron emission is generated in connection with mergers between
massive galaxy clusters. Galaxy clusters are unique laboratories to
study many aspects of the physics of particle
acceleration. Acceleration by MHD turbulence and shocks, generated
during cluster mergers, provide a viable scenario to explain the
origin of the non thermal activity. Radio Halos are the most
spectacular non thermal sources in galaxy clusters. In the last few
years, radio observations of large X-ray cluster samples and their
follow up at low radio frequencies allow for a step forward in our
understanding of the nature of these sources. These observations
suggest that turbulence plays a role in the acceleration of
relativistic particles in galaxy clusters, in which case the majority
of Radio Halos in the Universe should have very steep spectra and glow
up preferentially at low radio frequencies. After discussing the most
relevant observational and theoretical aspects of the non thermal
activity in galaxy clusters, I will focus on new results based on
turbulent acceleration and on the most promising possibilities to test
present models with both low frequency surveys (GMRT, LOFAR, LWA) and
multifrequency (radio -- X-ray -- gamma) observations."

"X-ray and radio observations of galaxy clusters have revealed a
wealth of structure in their hot halos associated with extragalactic
radio sources. Structures in the form of large scale cavities and weak
shocks provide a reliable gauge of the mechanical output of
extragalactic radio jets launched by AGNs. The morphology and
properties of cavities have given strong constraints on the nature and
composition of AGN outflows, especially on large scales. We will
present three-dimensional magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) simulations of
jets/lobes in the ICM and compare them with our ~70 X-ray cavities as
well as individual jet/lobe sources. In addition, we will present
cosmological MHD simulations of galaxy cluster formation with AGN
jets/lobes feedback and its implications for the origin and energetics
of the cluster-wide magnetic fields. We demonstrate that the ICM
turbulence is excited and sustained by the frequent mergers during the
cluster formation. This turbulence excites a small-scale dynamo
process that transports, spreads, and amplifies the fields originated
from the radio jet/lobe system. This process could be the primary
process of populating the whole cluster with magnetic fields."

No more Simbol-X, but do have Astro-H.

"AGN feedback is likely to be the most important mechanism for
balancing radiative cooling in galaxy clusters and
groups. Investigation of this process requires a combination of high
quality X-ray and radio data, but at frequencies above 1 GHz many old
radio structures are too faint to be detected. We have identified 21
groups which show signs of radio/X-ray interactions, and acquired deep
multi-band GMRT low-frequency radio data which provides a dramatically
improved ability to identify old AGN outbursts. Having already
examined 9 systems, we request funding to support the analysis of
archival Chandra data for the remaining 12. In combination with our
radio survey and archival XMM data, we will examine the range of
feedback modes, AGN power output and duty cycles in galaxy groups."

"Clusters of galaxies are the largest equilibrated structures in the
Universe. Despite the enormous energy input from supermassive black
holes, they retain their gaseous matter and behave essentially as
"closed boxes".  Clusters are therefore good astrophysical
"laboratories" at the crossroads of astrophysics and cosmology. Our
understanding of the physics of the ICM remains incomplete,
particularly the physics of the core where cooling, heating and
transport processes strongly interact.  There is rich phenomenology
that remains poorly understood: the statistics of cool cores, the
presence of radio relic sources, radio mini-halos in cool core
clusters, the distribution of metals, and Halpha filaments in
clusters.  Non-thermal pressure support due to magnetic fields,
turbulence, and cosmic rays is also an open question. The theoretical
studies of the physics of the ICM progressed beyond ideal
hydrodynamics. The bestiary of ICM-related plasma instabilities
includes magnetothermal instability, heat flux buoyancy instability,
gyrothermal, firehose and cosmic-ray driven instabilities. The
"microphysical" plasma processes and magnetic fields are known to
control the mixing of AGN bubbles with the ICM and the ICM heating and
can now be studied using modern MHD codes. The objective of the
workshop is to bring together a number of theoretical/computational
astrophysicists, experts in plasma physics and a select number of
observers to exchange expertise via informal discussions and talks,
and to facilitate collaborations among the participants, who share
closely related interests in the physics of the ICM and AGN
feedback. Topics to be considered at the workshop include:

- cold fronts and turbulence in the ICM
- relative role of AGN (bubbles,jets), thermal conduction and
   viscosity in heating the ICM
- role of plasma instabilities
- the physics of the coupling between the mechanical energy of the AGN
and the thermal energy of the ICM
- the connection between AGN feedback and star formation
- the evolution and amplification of magnetic fields in the ICM
- powering Halpha filaments
- numerical methods for modeling cluster plasma
- non-thermal pressure, cosmic rays/non-thermal particles and radio halo"